Okay, I think we're
good. It doesn't seem like it's going to
keep buffering. It seems good. I had to
switch reream servers. Seems good. it.
Uh, it might be time to find a new
service for that at some
point
because so many issues just from reream.
My internet's pretty much always stable
here, at least at the new
facility.
Anyways, get back to this. So, what I
wanted to do here
was I wanted to find the the really long
runs
We have this one right here. Actually,
this is our best one
ever. So, actually, right, this doesn't
do anything
This doesn't do anything for over a
billion
steps. If I were to set up a 10 billion
step
run, it's just not going to do anything,
right? It's going to take forever.
tricky. If we do a 2.5 billion step run
and hope that the results generalize a
bit better now,
that. Then that one actually can get us
like a reasonableish number of
experiments.
Oh, you know
what? I don't think we did the mini
batch size correctly at all
here. The 16
384 is what we've been using.
Okay. So, we have this going. Let's now
go back to uh the meta
experiments right here.
I guess we have to redo our dashboard
for
this mildly annoying
Right. Good. And we will be back to your
daily scheduled experimental
analysis. I think that the way we're
going to do
this, we're just going to grab like some
random run.
But for some reason like
these are just not showing up
anywhere. I see it right here.
Train/Adam beta1.
So it has all these train slash
whatevers. Oh, it probably doesn't have
score,
right? Yeah, that's it. It just didn't
define. All right, that's not on
me. I'll just make him a dashboard real
quick now that I know what it
is. So, what we want to do here is we
want to grab all the parameters that can
have some sensitivity
uh to
Let me just make sure this is not
different for heart.
2.7. Uh, it is actually slightly
different, but luckily this is the lower
of the two metrics, so we're not over
inflating.
Entropy. Entropy is definitely worth
doing.
obviously a pram are among the most
sensitive. You can see right there the
falloff
Oh, hang on. This is Let me just go tell
I got to go tell somebody something.
Okay. I was
uh coerced into
doing some overhead rock presses while I
was
there. And time to squat while he ain't
here.
I have um Pepper. There's actually,
you'll probably see it in the
background. I have a freight delivery
today with a pretty awesome new piece of
equipment. So, I'm saving uh leg
strength for
that. You will see. It's a It's a pretty
cool piece. I've wanted one of them for
a long time. It's probably not something
that you've ever seen.
It's a very
specific piece of
equipment. We're also ordering more
hardware for Puffer today.
No, the 5090s actually their worst perf
per dollar. We're specifically and
intentionally getting a couple of um V1
tiny boxes. They had a couple of them
left cuz they had 6490s instead of
55090s, which is
better. And also it's um
A bit cheaper as
So, these are the prioritized replay
coefficients. Um, whether these matter
or not depends strongly on the
environment from what I've
seen. I mean, that's something, right?
This is this actually there is a stable
range in here.
We also need the value function
coefficients.
Flip coefficient doesn't seem to matter
as much.
is that that's kind of interesting,
right? It really doesn't matter where
you clip it, but you need to
right? Drace and these are not swept.
Okay, cool. So, those are all the
params. Let's just take a little bit of
a look at
these. See if there's anything wrong or
unexpected here.
Okay, so atom beta
1 this should have a stable
range. It seems like we get good results
in a decent range over
here.
Okay, beta
2. This one is
wrong. This is supposed to
be Adam Beta 2 last.
There we
go. This one does want to be quite close
to one, but it's
like Hang on. Is there a way? Can I do
log? No, cuz it doesn't know what a
logit
is. It needs logic scale,
man. Flip coefficient actually right
here. Flip coefficient. There's a little
bit of uh advantage to be gained here by
actually tuning this, right? And all
these
around8 too high entropy. pretty
bad. Gamma obviously has its region
here. Actually, very high gamma seems to
be the best for this, which is
interesting. Lambda has a stable
region,
88 learning rate has a stable
regen. Radnorm large stable reason
doesn't uh doesn't matter a
ton. Prioritize replay
alpha. Actually, there is a pretty
nice correlation in here,
right? The
beta beta just wants to be minimized. It
looks
like there's an interpretation of that.
I'll have to look at the math. Value
function coefficient needs to be bumped
way up, but clip coefficient doesn't
matter. Okay, cool. I think we can
actually export this to a port.
Oh, and I can just send somebody this
link. Perfect.
So this should be pretty well soda for
them based on their
What is this run right here? I want to
know.
best. Not too much in atom
params. Clip coefficient.
Huh? Okay. The alpha coefficient does
matter.
There we
go. They should be very happy with
this. They should be very, very happy
with this indeed.
Cool. They should be very very happy
with these results. Um, this
is I believe this is soda for them in
like a tiny tiny fraction of the amount
of
training and this is like with comes
with a ton of insights.
Um, yeah, they should be very very happy
with this, which is
good. Good time to mention that all of
our stuff is free and open source, but
uh we do stuff like this paid for uh
people in industry. So, if you do RL in
industry or know some folks who do and
they're having a hard time of it, we
make RL much much faster and much much
easier. like this set of experiments in
particular. Uh this is not something
that you could run anything remotely
close to in any other library or system
or whatever. This is directly from our
latest release and these results are
pretty much unthinkable like even a few
months
ago. Very strong results, you know. And
because these are very strong
results, I'm starting to wonder if we
have issues with neural MMO 3. I bet you
there are some data issues with
uh with neural MMO 3. We should go look
for those at some
meantime, I think we come up with a plan
for the rest of the day. I've got half
an hour now.
to work on a few things and then
breakfast and then I will be free for
the rest of the day except for uh
whenever the new equipment gets here. I
got to take delivery of that which I'll
probably just leave the stream on and
have that in the background. We'll see
because it'll be
Oh, and actually let me send these uh
these params over to Aaron so that he
work on
this just so he can take it from here.
Good. So Aaron will do that. Does Puffer
Lab support continuous M like Majoko
Deep Mind Control Suite or Mayo? Yes, we
have continuous control support. We've
done uh paid robotics worth work for
clients before, specifically in
animation gen with Isaac Jim. uh we
don't tend to use a ton of continuous
control stuff in our benchmarking just
because RMS are way faster. Uh but it is
very easy to bind any existing thing to
puffer lib and uh you know we can help
with that on the open source side for
free or if you want a little bit more
insight and you do stuff in a company
context then we can do that under
contract.
Like I say, all our stuff is free and
open source, so you're free to just use
it. The contracts are just if you want,
you know, if you want the types of
results you see here that we get for all
these other
ends, but we've kind of done enough
fundamental stuff for a a little bit
here. I think that I really want this
file to be which is our like our main
train file. I want this to be virtually
ready to go
today. Let me think how much other stuff
there will be like what is on the the
total to-do list still before release.
like the meta results actually make me
way more confident in uh in releasing
this stuff like the quality of what the
results
are. But there's still like some
usability things I want to have fixed.
like so this is all that we have in
puffer
lib. I don't think we need to mess with
the emulation file very much this
release.
models are pretty fine. There are a few
very small
tweaks. Puffer lip/puffer lip just has
utils. There are a few things to clean
up in PyTorch.
you know, we really don't have that much
left to refactor um outside of the main
train
demo clip range for continuous
policies make it easier to not forget
initialize num agents. Yeah, there are a
few like quality of life things I think
mainly in the new
envi but those are all like pretty quick
and straightforward.
like final
checklist. So we have
good number of people have here on uh
9:30 on a Thursday or I guess it's
Friday.
Whoops. Um my hope for today is that
we we get like all the small stuff to a
good spot because tomorrow is
my longer work
day. And
um ideally tomorrow we can start running
all of the like experiments on all the
different M's and B baselines and really
start locking down stuff for the
release. So I guess the big things on
the checklist risk it's final clean up.
So it's like major is the
clean
puffer
minor in a rest of
library.
Um, we need working
baselines on puffer
ends plus a few
externals probably like
Atari and if you have re if you have
suggestions for what we should really
include in our benchmarks here guys if
anybody wants like a specific env
included if we already have it and it's
fast I can just run it. Um, if we don't
already have a binding port and you want
to help us add one real quick and then
run we can run stuff on it, that's also
cool. So, uh, if you're still here and
you want to add like we already have
Majokco binds and like I think we have
an old DMC thing. So, if you want to
help us get some stuff running on that,
we can even get those into the next
release here.
Arga. Okay, so next we
need we need like high
quality quality suites for major MS. So,
NMO3 GPU drive
uh
impulse force power climb.
See, minor m should work on one H
param. Hey, bro, can you tell me how to
fix Auntu sound
problems? This is not general tech
support channel, my guy. This is RL.
And I don't think anybody can tell you
how to fix your janky Linux setup. I
still have jank things with my setups
all the time. I've been using them since
I was I don't know
14. What is the actual speed up over
using the gym MS for Majoko for example?
So you are always going to be
bottlenecked by environment speed, but
typically if you use gym vectorzation or
anything, you're not going to get
anywhere near close to core speed times
number of cores. There's a lot of
overhead. Hufferlib has virtually zero
overhead. You're going to get very very
close to linear speed up over number of
cores. On top of that, our trainer is
very, very low overhead as well. And our
trainer is just better. like we're not
using exactly PO anymore. We have
substantial improvements on top of PO.
We have our own advantage function. We
have filtering. We've got prioritized
replay that's still on policy. Um we
have a lot of new things. Plus, we have
the best hyperparam sweep stuff out
there as well. So, typically the
workflow in Puffer is like get your
thing set up, tune it a little, make
sure it's fast, run 100 or 200
experiments, and boom, you have the
thing automatically solved. It's like
actually remarkably remarkably easy to
get stuff working um on new MS like
that. We have had people do stuff with
Majoko that worked pretty well in the
past. Um we just haven't like done it
lately on our main b uh main benchmarks.
But yeah, it would be pretty easy to get
that stuff set up and working
here. What if I want to use my own
algorithm? I'd need to implement it into
Puffer. Technically, yes. And actually,
let me answer both of those questions at
the same time from Bozer as well.
Um, so here's the thing. If you like are
thinking about Puffer compared to like
SP3 or RL liber one of those, it's not.
It's way lighter weight. Let me show
you. This is our entire training code.
It's one like thousandline file. This
has everything. So, this isn't the type
of thing where you're going to have to
go dig through a bunch of things. Like
if you want to implement your own
algorithm, you can pretty much just do
it clean RL style in this file. And if
you use like the way that we have our
data set up in here, just in this file,
you'll maintain all of our speed
optimizations as well. Plus, this comes
with like profiling to make it really
easy to optimize, too. Uh if you just
want a hyperprem
optimization, it's in this
file. This is it. Like
I don't know. The only real dependency
here is pyro. I think the sci-fi stats
one's even
outdated. Yeah, this is dated there.
Only dependency is pyro, uh, which we
use for Gaussian processes. You can just
take this file and use
it. Now, if you're doing RL anyways, I'd
suggest checking out our trainer because
it's really fast and it works really
well with this. Um, but yeah, you can
totally just use this
So browser to answer your question at
the same time there you go right like
it's not some massive framework it's
just it's really really fast but it's
also a couple of
files and we also have I mean I stream
dev constantly so it's easy to get help
here and we also have a nice community
on uh on Discord speaking of which did
we hit
2K I know that this was rounded did we
hit 2K
awesome. 2,000 stars on
Puffer. I'm so happy with that.
Holy. That's been a goal for a while.
And it's just it's really nice to have
that. You know, the thing that just
screwed with me my entire
PhD. Let me show you
something. So, this is my this is what I
worked on my entire
PhD about 531 stars, right? And this is
with me like, you know, working my ass
off, running competitions, trying to
like do all sorts of stuff to like, you
know, foster RL in the community, like
make stuff easy, get multi- aent stuff
happening. Like I put like my own like
unpaid time and a ton of money into
these competitions as
well, and it like it did
okay, but like it never really took off
massively. And then the thing that just
always screwed with me is that the
initial release while I was at OpenAI
just based on the OpenAI publicity got
like this just from like the old
unmaintained 10
repo. So it's pretty cool now to in it's
been about one year since I graduated to
have 2K on an RL repo which for RL
that's pretty dang big. That's bigger
than a lot of the other libraries that
have been around for longer. Um, and
also to know that we have the fastest
code, the simplest code, right? We have
the best results on a ton of different
benchmarks. We've got now we're going to
have 15 plus ultra higherf custom
environments for research. We've made
some of our own algorithmic
improvements. Like this is just this is
going very well. So, here's to next
release. might actually be the 2000.
Thank you very much for that. I think
you were because it was uh it was 1999
last night. So, thank you very much.
packaging. Anything else that should go
on this
checklist? We got to get the final
cleanup
done. Thanks, Pepper.
We need to get some baselines on all our
M's, plus a really high quality sweeps
on the important
So if it's public stuff, Discord,
whatever, if you have like business
inquiries or whatever. Yeah, my DMs are
always open.
Did I miss anything on the final
checklist here? I just want to make sure
I have
everything. I guess DDP.
So we need
like
tuned EDP plus
um compile plus
am
check. I'm trying to think if there's
anything else we need to do for release
because I I've got like another 10-ish
minutes now and I just I want to have
the full picture because I basically
what I want to do is I want to set
myself up so for the whole rest of today
and then tomorrow I don't have to like
keep going back to this. I want to just
be able to go right. I want to just be
able to like do the dev
Oops. And um and just hammer this all
out.
Docs. You forgot
docs. New
here. And packaging. These are the two
hardest ones is like getting the code in
a state I'm happy with cuz I'm
picky. And then
packaging. I'm pretty confident we can
get good baselines on
everything. This we basically already
did. These are easy
experiments. This is just like busy
work.
I guess I do have to make sure rest of
M's are
Okay. So if I do this then what's the
release going to look like? Oh yeah the
blog
obviously. So this is going to be
protein which is our new hyperp sweep
algorithm.
This is going to
cover
stuff.
Oh yeah. I was wondering why that got so
loud in the background.
Turns out that rain on a metal warehouse
roof is uh pretty
loud. Hopefully the uh noise filter
catches most of
it. Protein puffer advantage
filtering
CAPI. What other stuff should I put in
um the release that would be hype? The
new M's obviously.
I mean, the really the big thing about
this
release. Yeah, those are all the topics
I want to cover, I think, in there.
That's
good. I think this is this is about
enough for
release if we do all
this. So, let me uh let me just bullet
this out so I know what I'm doing today.
And then I'm going for breakfast in a
few and then I'll be back and I'm going
to start with this whole cleanup, I
think. So this is going to be like
Neptune
wand artifact load save
um
general line by
line cleanup
[Music]
That
continuous. Well, I don't know if you
actually want to have
Okay, Araga, we we don't currently do uh
internships. This is all like open
source stuff. We do a small amount of uh
paid work for clients in RL, but then
the people I put on those are either uh
PhD students I've worked with
previously and I know I work well with
or top contributors uh to Puffer Lib who
I know can get the work done. We don't
do like random random like uh you know
fixed time position hires intern or
full-time
either. And that's just mainly because
of the way the uh the company is uh is
run. Like the income for the company is
from clients. We don't have funding or
other stuff. So, it's like we hire
people to do things for clients, not
like general pull-time for a puffer.
Was there anything else I wanted to do?
Oh yeah, you also I wanted to check
um whether you need multiple data
points, right?
Well, I can put that in here. Do
you need multiple
sweets per
run? All right, that should be
everything
here. Hey, Spencer. Yeah, let me take a
quick look at your sweep, though. I'm
going to have to go any second for
breakfast. You know, thanks for your
interest to Argy here. It's just the way
that Puffer works. We're very heavily
trying to bootstrap this. So, we can't
just like randomly be hiring uh interns
when there's not like income coming from
those interns or clients
specifically. So, I don't like to
advertise to people like, "Hey, if you
come do a bunch of free work, maybe
there's a position for you." Because
that's kind of jank. Um it's more so
just like people contribute who want to
learn and contribute and then you know
if people get good enough we pull the
like we can pull people from community
into gigs when they make sense but there
are no guarantees on
sweep. And actually, I just I'll say for
the people watching because I got to go
in a second. I will be back after
breakfast for the whole rest of the day.
So, all my stuff here is on puffer.ai.
Want to help me out for free to start
the repo. If you want to get involved
with open source dev, just join the
Discord. You don't need an RL
background, just need a programming
background. Uh, most of our top
contributors came in with no RL
background whatsoever. And also follow
me on X for more RL content.
Okay, here's the sweep. Spencer, just
link. Oh, you are in the
chat. Yo,
you're muted, but how's it going,
Spencer? Yo, all right. So,
but completion rate is good.
Okay. Um, so the score technically now
should
be clean executions
before of a like a a clean completion
rate. Mhm.
Before hitting
anything. But when testing out the
policy, it actually looks pretty decent.
And I think the reason why the score is
coming down low on that is due to the
respawn stuff. Okay. So, I mean it's
good now we're just down to like a
little bit of MJ jank on this for the
most part. And
um yeah, I think you'll have this and
the new M to play around with. Um and we
can just go back and forth on stuff for
these. We will have to figure out the
speed at some point, but I think we can
do that after.
Um, it's probably just going to be a
matter of cutting out redundant obs.
Yeah, I think that's probably going to
be most of it. So, I was thinking what
I'll do is I was going
to change how this the collisions are
recognized. Mhm. Um, such that
collisions are only
recognized
if it is prior to you reaching your
first goal. And like if you run into a
car that has already reached its goal on
their second life, then it doesn't count
as a collision.
Are you still going to get negative
reward though?
Well, that's the part I was going to
take out. Well, you they need to still
get a negative reward for colliding if
you want them to not learn to just go
through each
other cuz if they're only re if they
only get a penalty for colliding on the
first time, then like it's questionable
whether they actually learn to stop
colliding. Like they could actually
learn after I after I get the goal once
or whatever, I can collide as much as I
want.
What if I add an observation that is
like have has that agent reached its
goal and you can see it
because arguably you should be able to
phase through another car in the second
life.
I mean the main thing you're learning
like not colliding with stationary walls
should be learnable very easily. The
main thing you are learning is avoiding
collision. I we need to think of a good
way to handle
this. That's
like I wonder if the spawn immunity just
covers
it. Right.
Well, that's what I was offering was
just like collisions don't count if but
it would be like it doesn't count for a
few like I mean you could do it for like
10 time steps or whatever or like it
would have to be for like some fixed
number of time steps. So we'd have to
like look like how long roughly these
time steps are cuz the idea is like if a
car spawns right in front of you and
you're already going that direction, you
should be able to go through it.
Correct.
Um, off-road rate is pretty much solved
at this point. It's 6%.
Okay, good. So, it's entirely collision
rate because completion rate is getting
up to 95% now. And then car collision
still like 20% of which I probably a
bunch of it is. Yeah, it's just it's
just the respawn things. Okay, cool. And
then so yeah, I mean some degree of
spawn immunity. And then second thing to
look at is
uh what was I going to say? Oh,
confirming from the actual original GPU
drive environment that their cars the
cars that they're spawning are the same
cars that I'm spawning in the agents
that I'm are considering to be agents
because I can't do that really on my
computer.
Yeah. No, we will we'll make sure of
that. Don't worry. I'll like I'll have
to set it up locally, but I'll do that.
Okay. But so for now, do you think just
doing spawn try spawn immunity and see
how it goes? Um yeah, do like a few
frame spawn immunity and uh see how that
goes and rerun sweep. See if we get like
close to one. By the way, this sweep was
with a kneeling on and then solved in
like 70 million. Do you want me to go a
non- annealing sweep?
Uh if you're solving, it doesn't matter.
The kneeling only matters if um a
kneeling off only matters for stuff like
neural MMO where you're doing a a very
short sweep to try to predict a very
long run.
Okay. All right. Sounds good. Cool.
Okay. Uh the plan for me for the today
is going to be to like clean up pretty
much the whole rest of Puffer. We got
some amazing results overnight on meta.
So like it's in a very good spot. I just
there's like a whole bunch of stuff I
want to clean up. So, we have the stable
final version of the transcript.